# Simple explanation about how website works, Http - HyperText Transfer Protocol, Request & Response, How websites interact with JavaScript, What are nodes, How JS selects html elements, 

# Simple explanation about how website works

When we want to view the website, the web browser(client side) sends a request from the server for the content of the page.

And the server sends a response back with its requested data back to the client. Sending requests and reponses are done through the HTTP, Hyper Text Transfer Protocol. 

# What is HTTP?

HTTP stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol. It is a promise that clients and servers have made to send requests and responses to each other.

# What are requests and responses?

Request is some order that browser sends to a server for the content of the page we would like to see.

Response is some order that the server sends back to browser with the requested data.

## Components of a request

Requests : request-line, header, body

Example of request-line

```
POST / HTTP/1.0
```

## Components of a response

Response : status-line, header, body

Example of response-line

```
HEAD / HTTP/1.1
Host: stackoverflow.com
User-Agent: curl/7.86.0
Accept: */*
Testing: Test header so you see this works
```

## How to view header and body for the requests & responses on a browser?

Go to the page in the browser, right click and click inspect.

Go to Network tab and we can see the `Headers` tab, and under that, we can find both header for both request and response.

The `Payload` tab is where request's body goes, and `Response` tab is where the header's body goes.
