# [How to solve ANY problem](#how-to-solve-any-problem)

# How to solve any problem

```
1. understand the problem
2. make a plan
3. carry out the plan
4. look back and improve your solution
```

## 1. Understand the problem

It is the most difficult step!

Ask these questions to see if I understand the problem.

- What is the problem asking me to do

- Can I restate the problem in my own language?

- Do I understand all the words in the problem?

- Do I have enough information to solve the problem?

- Are there are constraints or edge cases to consider?

## 2. Make a plan

Once we have an understanding of the problem, I may again be tempted to start writing codes, but I have to patiently write the plans out which will save me hours of coding down the path.

They are like this below.

```js
// 1. create vowels variable for vowel
// 2. create new empty string to be added later
// 3. iterate through the string
//   a. create a variable that represents the next vowel character
//   b. add that variable to empty
```

How can we make a plan?

- Break the problem into smaller problems.

- Draw out the problems

- Solve a simpler version of the problem

- Look for patterns

- Work backwards

- Guess and check

## 3. Carry out the plan

Once, 1 and 2 are established, this is the **easiest** step. Often we get stuck here, but it is because we didn't do a good job on 1. understanding the problem, or 2. making a plan.

1 is the hardest part, and if we do 1 and 2 well, 3 won't be a big problem, it is usually whether we know the syntax or not.

## 4. Look back and improve your solution

It's always good to revisit my code and make improvements.

This means Debugging, Testing edge cases, or Optimizing my code for readability or efficiency.

