# Threading

Threading is not a JavaScript specific term, but it is used in programming.

When we hear `thread of execution`, this usually refers to `thread`.

The term thread is used to describe the sequence of commands.

The thread is like a task, which consists of multiple commands.

Buying groceries can be a thread, which consists of multiple commands.

```
Thread : Buying groceries 

Tasks (Order matters!)
- Make a list
- Get ready
- Start a car
- Drive to a store
- Buy groceries
```

We can see that orders of the tasks shouldn't be mixed up, as we can't drive to a store without starting a car!

There are several models of threading but this time we will go over two big approaches to categorize threading.

1. single-threading

2. multi-threading

Single-threading happens sequentially, which means they happen one after another.

The tasks don't happen concurrently. As a result, it can slow down the process.

On the other hand, multi-threading can happen concurrently at some point.

It can be fast, but complexity increases, such as each task might share the same resource but only limited

amount of resources exist.

They have their own pros and cons.

But JavaScript is a single threaded language so it is good to know what problems single-thread runtimes face.

Runtime means the time that thread is happening.

The problems single-thread runtimes face are that the program gets slow, or some program never gets executed.

```js
function sayHello() {
    console.log('Hello')
}

setTimeout(function(){
    console.log("times up!")
},1000)

sayHello();

```


This will output

```
Hello
(1000ms passes)
times up!
```

However this also happens

```js
function sayHello(sentence) {
    while (true) {
        console.log('hello~~~')
    }
}

setTimeout(function(){
    console.log("times up!")
},1000)

sayHello();
```

The output will be..

```
hello~~~
hello~~~
hello~~~
hello~~~
hello~~~
...
(goes forever and 'times up!' never prints out)
```
