# Let's better understand what closure is.

The concept of closure was difficult for me, but I think I had an aha moment for closure.

And I want to share it here.

I am going to talk about what closure is. I love explaining in a simple way.

Before we begin, I would assume that whoever is reading this article has no idea of what closure is.

We don't need to think of anything else.

```
Closure is when an inner block of code can access an object that is in the outside of the inner block.
```

For example,

```js
let fruits = {'apple':10, 'orange':5};

function eatOneApple(){
    fruits['apple'] -= 1;
}
```

The variable `fruits` is defined in the global scope.

And the function `eatOneApple` has `{}`(block) and that block is in the function scope or local scope.

So definitely global scope is larger than function scope, and global scope contains the function scope.

However, the `fruits` is accessible in the function scope, despite that `fruits` is located in the global scope.

We go back to the definition we saw earlier, 

```
Closure is when an inner block of code can access an object that is in the outside of the inner block.
```

Now, let's move on to why people talk about closure.

Lots of the times, people often talk about closure in this particular situation.

```js
function sayHello(name){
    let introduce = function(toWhom){
        console.log(`hello ${toWhom}, my name is ${name}`);
    }
    return introduce;
}
```

I created a function `sayHello` and inside the function, I created a function variable called `introduce`.

And `sayHello` returns the function `introduce`.

So how is this closure?

We know that `name` is passed in as an argument in the outer function `sayHello`.

`name` is in the outer function scope, but the function variable `introduce` has its own inner function scope.

In the `introduce` it uses `name` variable that is in the outer function scope.

This makes it an example of closure.

I will show you how I use this function.

```js
function sayHello(name){
    let introduce = function(toWhom){
        console.log(`hello ${toWhom}, my name is ${name}`);
    }
    return introduce;
}

const jinsung = sayHello('Jinsung');
const jinsungToHarry = jinsung('Harry');

jinsungToHarry;     // 'hello Harry, my name is Jinsung'
```

```js
const jinsung = sayHello('Jinsung');
```

The string `Jinsung` is being passed in as argument in the function `sayHello`, and is assigned to a variable `name`.

`name` variable is accessible in the inner function `introduce` scope at any time.

## When we call `sayHello('Jinsung')`, it won't return some calculated value or anything, it will only return function object called `introduce`.

`sayHello` is ONLY supposed to call inner function, and the inner function can access the outer function's argument `name`.

## Since `sayHello` returns a function, the variable `jinsung` will return a function object.

The variable `jinsung` has the value of `sayHello('Jinsung')`.

This is similar to this example below.

```js
function print(name) {
    console.log(name);
}

const printJinsung = print;
console.log(printJinsung);      // [Function: print]
```

## The variable `printJinsung` has the reference to the function object `print`. That's all it does.

To call `print`, then we can put `()` next to `printJinsung`.

Just like this below.

```js
function print(name) {
    console.log(name);
}

const printJinsung = print;
printJinsung('Jinsung');      // 'Jinsung'
```

Let's go back to the example,

```js
function sayHello(name){
    let introduce = function(toWhom){
        console.log(`hello ${toWhom}, my name is ${name}`);
    }
    return introduce;
}

const jinsung = sayHello('Jinsung');
const jinsungToHarry = jinsung('Harry');

jinsungToHarry;     // 'hello Harry, my name is Jinsung'
```

The variable `jinsung` has the reference to the `introduce` function object. But it is not calling the function but referencing it.

In order to call the `introduce` we can put `()` next to the variable.

```js
jinsung('Harry');;
```

And if we want to assign this value to a variable, we can write

```js
const jinsungToHarry = jinsung('Harry');        // 'hello Harry, my name is Jinsung'
```

Now we can try creating different objects with the same 'Jinsung' assigned to `name`.

```js
const jinsungToHarry = jinsung('Harry');        // 'hello Harry, my name is Jinsung'
const jinsungToJacob = jinsung('Jacob');        // 'hello Jacob, my name is Jinsung'
const jinsungToLee = jinsung('Lee');            // 'hello Lee, my name is Jinsung'
```

The variables `jinsungToHarry`, `jinsungToJacob`, and `jinsungToLee` share the same outer variable `Jinsung` in its outer function `sayHello`.
